My Father-in-law is Lu Bu Chapter 199
Chapter 199 Escape (2)
Translated by Gamer

Two forces were running in the wilderness. A smaller
group was at the front. A larger group was chasing them
from the back. These were the Wolf Cavalry and the
Yuzhou Cavalry.

Both forces were running with all their effort. The Wolf
Cavalry at the front was running with all their effort so
that they would not be torn into pieces by the Yuzhou
Cavalry while the Yuzhou Cavalry was chasing with all
their effort so that they could destroy the Wolf Cavalry.
The general at the front of the Yuzhou Cavalry constantly
try to make the speed of the cavalry move faster.

“Lu Bu! Run! Run! | want to see where do you want to run
to!” Zhang Kai showed a ferocious face. He was impatient
and wanted to rush into the Wolf Cavalry to tear them
apart. He wants to kill all the wolf cubs with the blades of
the Yuzhou Cavalry.

“Shoot the arrows! Shoot the arrows!” Zhang Kai shouted
as he gave chase. They are about to catch up but a few
horses out of reach. It would seem like this is as close as
they could get. It was as if something tasty was put in
front of you. You can see and smell it. You can also
imagine the kind of taste it would have when you eat it.
However, you are not able to eat it. It is only there for you
to look at! It was an annoying feeling.

This angry feeling prompted Zhang Kai to order his
soldiers to shoot the arrows. It takes considerable skill to
draw the bow while riding a horse. This was even worse
as stirrups did not exist in this era. The soldiers could only
rely on themselves to balance their body. Basic cavalry
combat was a skill that requires more than several years
of practice. Horseback archery was even harder. To use
archery, a person would need to release his hands from
the horse. There is a high chance of falling off the horse
especially during a charge. At that time, the person would
definitely not survive as he would be tramped by the
other horses.

Those that are able to do horseback archery would all be
elites as it was not a skill gained with several years of
experience. In the Yuzhou Cavalry there were at least a
few hundred of these kinds of elites. They were able to
shoot arrows on top of their horse although their aiming is
not that good. If their horses are not able to catch up,
then their arrows will catch up!

The Yuzhou Cavalry soldiers aimed their bows at the
figures in front of them and shot their arrows.
“Raise the shields!” Lu Bu shouted from the front. The
soldiers that had shields raised them and some slowed
down to form a line.

*Clang clang clang* Hundreds of arrows scattered
everywhere. Although it was difficult to hit the soldiers,
one unlucky person got his horse injured.

“Go!” The moment the arrow stopped, the Wolf Cavalry
started to speed up again in attempts to throw off the
Yuzhou Cavalry.

“How hateful!” Zhang Kai expressed his regret.

The Wolf Cavalry in front of him were merits. Merits! How
can he let them slip away? Especially Lu Bu. If he could
kill Lu Bu, he would be famous. Lu Bu was the God of
War! If he could kill Lu Bu, what kind of reward would Sun
Ce give him? However, he could only look at the food in
front of him and could not eat it. How could Zhang Kai
bear this?

“General Zhang, be careful of an ambush in front!” Taishi
Ci became more uneasy. He may not understand
cavalries but he is still familiar with war. The Wolf Cavalry
may be trying to escape but Taishi Ci noticed that they
did not escape in panic. Besides that, the Wolf Cavalry
was still about 3 horses away from the Yuzhou Cavalry.
The distance of 3 horses by itself is not a problem. It
would mean that the Yuzhou Cavalry is pursuing fiercely.
However, the problem was that the Wolf Cavalry was
controlling the distance. They slow down so that the
Yuzhou Cavalry would catch up and speed up if the
distance became too close. What exactly was the Wolf
Cavalry trying to do? Based on this reasoning, the Wolf
Cavalry could have escaped a long time ago.

“How could there be an ambush! General Taishi Ci, you
worry too much!” Taishi Ci became unhappy. Zhang Kai
was a new addition to the Sun Ce’s Army. He knew about
Taishi Ci’s position in the army. Lu Su request for Taishi Ci
to help him was like an insult to him. He is the general for
the cavalry. To ask a marine for help is like looking down
on yourself.

Zhang Kai was also worried that Sun Ce might grant his
position as the general of the Yuzhou Cavalry to another
general. This is because he just joined the Sun Ce’s Army.
He is not a trusted subordinate of Sun Ce. The heavy
cavalry was also Sun Ce’s trump card. It would be more
appropriate to entrust the trump card to a more trusted
subordinate. This is why Zhang Kai is trying hard to get
merits. He wants to make great contributions to
strengthen his position in the Sun Ce’s Army. Only then
will he become a talented and trusted subordinate that
Sun Ce does not need to worry about.
If he could not do that, he really would be replaced by
Sun Ce with generals like Taishi Ci. A general that is
strong in martial arts and have good understanding of
command. If Sun Ce decides to replace him, he would not
be able to object.

“This direction is towards the main camp of our marines.
How could there be an ambush! If there was an ambush it
would belong to our Jiangdong’s Army. General Taishi Ci
you really worry too much!” Zhang Kai held back his
displeasure and explained to Taishi Ci. He tried to be
polite not just because Taishi Ci saved him once but also
because Taishi Ci is a more senior general.

“You are probably right!” Taishi Ci looked again at the
riverside. After crossing the river, it would be Sun Ce’s
territory. It would be impossible for Lu Bu to set an
ambush there. He must have really worried too much!
Taishi Ci also hoped for this to be a success. After all, who
would want to lose?

Ambush? Obviously, there are no ambushes in front. A
large part of Lu Bu’s Army was still in Shucheng. There
are only 5,000 Wolf Cavalry soldiers here. However, Taishi
Ci’s worry was well founded! If they had paid more
attention they would have noticed that Lu Bu’s Army lead
them around in a circle.
Zhang Kai was still looking at Lu Bu! If it is going to be
like this, just stop running and die already. Why do you
keep running! Might as well become his merits. The battle
has been decided the moment they started escaping.

“General! General!” One deputy general caught up and
reported to Zhang Kai.

“N?” Zhang Kai turned his head to look at the deputry
general. This person was also under his leadership last
time. Zhang Kai trusts this person. After he was
appointed the general of the cavalry, he made this
person his deputy. Now that this person call out to him,
he must have something that is important to say.
“Speak!”

“General! The men and the horses are fatigued!” The
deputy general reported. The Yuzhou Cavalry was a
heavy cavalry. They can tear apart their enemies in the
wilderness. Their presence is a deterrent. They have high
mobility and can travel a hundred /i. However, the horses
were not machines. They can become tired. Besides that,
the ability to travel a hundred /i apply to their usual
marching speed. Besides that, the heavy cavalries were
all fitted with armor that weigh a few hundred jin.
Including the rider, it would almost reach 300 jin. The
horses were now galloping. They did not reduce their
speed but went faster instead. Horses galloping at high
speeds can only travel about 10 /i. Not to mention the
fact that these were heavy cavalries.
The Wolf Cavalry was riding in front while the Yuzhou
Cavalry chased from behind. They have been chasing for
about a dozen /i already. Zhang Kai turned around and
saw that some of the horses are beginning to foam at the
mouth. This means that they have reached their limit!
Even ordinary cavalry generals know that the horse would
be unable to run. Now is the time to stop and rest.
However, won't the Wolf Cavalry get away? Zhang Kai
was not satisfied. He had to rely on so many people,
terrain and the stratagem to split the Wolf Cavalry into
three. All that is left is the 1,500 Wolf Cavalry soldiers and
Lu Bu. He just needed to catch up. If he could catch up,
Zhang Kai would be in a high position in the Sun Ce’s
Army. He would also be able to enjoy wealth and endless
benefits.

“Chase!” Zhang Kai ruthlessly spoke. The Wolf Cavalry in
front of him became blood red. This was caused by his
greed. Men will die for wealth just like birds will die for
food. Zhang Kai also risks his life.

“But general! The horses!” At this rate the horses will all
die of exhaustion. In Jiangdong, horses are worth 100
gold. Even 100 gold may not be enough to buy a horse.
The cost of one heavy cavalry soldier is more than
enough to outfit a group of common soldiers. These 5,000
Yuzhou Cavalry soldiers is the limit for Jiangdong. Sun Ce
paid a huge amount for it. If they were loss, Sun Ce would
die when he found out about it. Besides that, the Yuzhou
Cavalry also treasure their horses. Their horses were like
their life. If their horses were to perish, they would also
feel very bad.

The deputy general also knows about Zhang Kai’s
character. He was the kind of person who would die for
merits. Even on Bagongshan, Zhang Kai fought the
enemy to take his armor. Their 2,000 Yuzhou Cavalry only
managed to kill about 500 soldiers. However, for the sake
of the armor, Zhang Kai threw away 1,200 cavalry
soldiers. Knowing that he could not persuade Zhang Kai,
the deputy went and look at Taishi Ci. Hopefully Taishi Ci
could persuade Zhang Kai.

Taishi Ci also noticed the foam forming at the mouths of
the horses. He was not a cavalry expert but he also knew
about the common sense of horse riding. The horses
foaming at the mouth means that the horses have
reached their limit. They will need to rest. The horses
were not cows. When a cow is tired, they will stop
moving. Horses were different. When the horses do not
understand the meaning of tired especially when it is
being ridden. They will keep on running until they die.
“General Zhang Kai! We should give up!” Taishi Ci told
Zhang Kai.

“General Taishi Ci, you are a marine general and a trusted
subordinate of the lord. You also have a higher position
than me. However, this does not mean that you can
command me, Zhang Kai!” Zhang Kai said with bloodshot
eyes. He was polite to Taishi Ci and held him in high
respect but this made Taishi Ci more uncomfortable!
Although they have not worked together for a long time,
they would eventually need to do so. This is why it is
better to become more familiar. Just like how Huang Gai
and Han Dang calls Zhou Yu, ‘Little Zhou’ or how they call
Taishi Ci, ‘Zi Yi’.

Taishi Ci reminded Zhang Kai with good intentions but
Zhang Kai do not seem to appreciate it.

Zhang Kai on the other hand was obviously not grateful
for this advice. He subconsciously think of Taishi Ci as a
competitor for merits. Taishi Ci’s advice sounded like
Taishi Ci was afraid of him gaining merits and getting a
higher position than him. Although the Yuzhou Cavalry is
exhausted and the horses were foaming at the mouth,
Zhang Kai believes that the same would apply to the
Bingzhou Heavy Wolf Cavalry. On the other hand, the
horses of the Yuzhou cavalry came all the way for
Liaodong by sea. All the ones with poor quality would
have died on the ship while the ones that survived the
journey to Jiangdong have strong physical strength. These
horses were the cream of the crop.

These were one of the reasons for Zhang Kai’s
confidence. If his elite horses were tired, the same would
apply to the Bingzhou Wolf Cavalry! The horses used by
the Bingzhou Wolf Cavalry came from Youzhou. All the
good horses would either be old or dead. The only way
the Wolf Cavalry can get a new horse is to go to the
marketplace to buy the horse. How could the market
horses be stronger than Zhang Kai’s cream of the crop
horses? (TN: | am really curious as to what happens if Liu
Mang was here to give an honest answer to Zhang Kai.)

Besides that, the Wolf Cavalry are running for their lives.
The people fleeing would need more energy than the
people chasing. This is because if they do not run fast,
they would get caught. As the Wolf Cavalry fought with Lu
Su’s soldiers earlier, the Yuzhou Cavalry should have
more energy.

“General Taishi Ci! If you let Lu Bu and the other Wolf
Cavalry soldiers escape, do you have any other methods
to defeat them!” Zhang Kai also knew that Taishi Ci is
unhappy. He did not want to offend Taishi Ci so he
lowered his voice and asked.

“No!” Taishi Ci was also a good man. He also knew that
the way he spoke just now was not right. He was now a
senior general. He cannot speak to Zhang Kai like the
deputy. He thought about Zhang Kai's question. If they let
the Wolf Cavalry escape, they would not get another
chance like this!

The Wolf Cavalry was fast, strong and skilled. Dispatching
infantries was like sending food to them. Jiangdong has a
strong navy. However, those were two different areas. It
was impossible to let the navy and the cavalries fight!
The cavalries would not go to the water to fight the navy.
In that case, they could only use cavalries! The result of
Sun Ce’s Yuzhou Cavalry was also seen already. Despite
being 3 times the size, they received 2 times the
casualties. If the 5,000 Wolf Cavalry were together, the
5,000 Yuzhou Cavalry would be defeated. If the Yuzhou
Cavalry was defeated, what would they use to fight with
the Bingzhou Wolf Cavalry? Even if they captured Wan
Cheng and won Lujiang, as long as the Wolf King and
these hungry wolves, Lujiang will not be able to rest easy.
Sun Ce would also need to assign troops to various cities.
Once their numbers are small, the Wolf Cavalry can
attack them. If their numbers were too big, the Wolf
Cavalry could wait for an opportunity.

Now Sun Ce and Liu Biao are also fighting each other. On
top of that, there were many casualties in Wan Cheng. In
that case, where would they find more soldiers and
cavalry?

Now was the best opportunity to wipe out the Bingzhou
Wolf Cavalry. With this one battle, it could prevent the
loss of several hundred thousand of Sun Ce’s soldiers.

“General Taishi Ci. We are tired. Wouldn't the Wolf Cavalry
be tired as well?” Zhang Kai looked at Taishi Ci earnestly.
“They would be more tired than us. We came from the
main camp of the navy. They came from Wan Cheng City.
They have travelled further than us and even faced
blockades. Look at their equipment! They have armor,
spears, sabers. Some of them even have large shields.
Would they not be tired?! Are they not human?!” Zhang
Kai spoke a lot to persuade Taishi Ci. “This is why we
cannot give up the chance to destroy the Wolf Cavalry
even now! We just need to kill them and Lu Bu! After that
Lu Bu’s Army will no longer have the ability to fight! The
other 2 divisions of the Wolf Cavalry and those at Wan
Cheng will also surrender to us! Along with the
destruction of the Urban Army, there would be nothing
else in the way of our Lord’s great cause!”

Zhang Kai’s speech was so extravagant that he himself
feels touched. Not to mention Taishi Ci who thinks of Sun
Ce like a younger brother. Wherever he goes, he thinks
about the needs of Sun Ce. If things were really like what
Zhang Kai said, the Wolf Cavalry was at its end. They just
need to put in a bit more effort and the Wolf Cavalry
would no longer be able to escape. This is especially true
as their opponent is Lu Bu. This person can really make a
comeback like what Zhang Kai has said. They could also
make their opponents surrender and gain talented
personnel. He has seen the Urban Army. All of them were
strong and did not fear death.

If they pledge their service to Sun Ce, Sun Ce’s Army
would grow even more powerful. They could even rely on
the Bingzhou Wolf Cavalry and the Yuzhou Cavalry to
defeat Cao Cao and Yuan Shao at Guandu. After that most
of the land would belong to Sun Ce.

“Chase!” Taishi Ci shouted. He got persuaded. The odds
and the compensation was so high that even Taishi Ci
could not bear it. He cleared his doubts and became
determined. The stakes were too high and the rewards
were too large. If they win they would pacify the whole of
Lujiang and gain many strong soldiers. If they lose...
Lose!? Taishi Ci did not want to lose. If 5,000 cavalry
soldiers could lose to 1,500 cavalry soldiers, then they
might as well be pigs.
