But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denouncing pleasure and
 praising pain was born and I will give you a complete account of the system, an
d expound the actual teachings of the great explorer of the truth, the master-bu
ilder of human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure itself, b
ecause it is pleasure, but because those who do not know how to pursue pleasure 
rationally encounter consequences that are extremely painful. Nor again is there
 anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is 
pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in which toil and pain can pr
ocure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which of us ever under
takes laborious physical exercise, except to obtain some advantage from it? But 
who has any right to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that 
has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain that produces no resultan
t pleasure? On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislik
e men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the momen
t, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are 
bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through 
weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pa
in. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, wh
en our power of choice is untrammelled and when nothing prevents our being able 
to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided
. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligation
s of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and 
annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to thi
s principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures
, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains. But I must explain to you how a
ll this mistaken idea of denouncing pleasure and praising pain was born and I wi
ll give you a complete account of the system, and expound the actual teachings o
f the great explorer of the truth, the master-builder of human happiness. No one
 rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure itself, because it is pleasure, but becau
se those who do not know how to pursue pleasure rationally encounter consequence
s that are extremely painful. Nor again is there anyone who loves or pursues or 
desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, but because occasionally c
ircumstances occur in which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. T
o take a trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercis
e, except to obtain some advantage from it? But who has any right to find fault 
with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or
 one who avoids a pain that produces no resultant pleasure? On the other hand, w
e denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and de
moralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that th
ey cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame 
belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the s
ame as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly si
mple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untram
melled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every p
leasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances a
nd owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently
 occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise ma
n therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rej
ects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to av
oid worse pains.But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denounci
ng pleasure and praising pain was born and I will give you a complete account of
 the system, and expound the actual teachings of the great explorer of the truth
, the master-builder of human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes, or avoids ple
asure itself, because it is pleasure, but because those who do not know how to p
ursue pleasure rationally encounter consequences that are extremely painful. Nor
 again is there anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself,
 because it is pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in which toil 
and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which o
f us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise, except to obtain some advantag
e from it? But who has any right to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a
 pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain that produ
ces no resultant pleasure? On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indigna
tion and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasu
re of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and tr
ouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in thei
r duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking f
rom toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In 
a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammelled and when nothing prevents 
our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and eve
ry pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or
 the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be 
repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these
 matters to this principle of selection: 